https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/oops-object-oriented-design/


Machine language coding was near impossible for modern programs so assembly languages were born

Assembly languages were too open and had no structure so Structured Programming was born

Structured Programming: Divide program into functions and modules, helps keep program readable and modular, PASCAL and C follow this approach

Procedural Programming Approach: AKA Top-down approach, functions have specific tasks, data is global, not secure, FORTRAN and COBOL follow this approach

Procedural programming had issues with over-generalization and real-time applications so the Object-oriented Programming approach was born

Object-Oriented Programming Approach: Modeled state and behaviour after real-world objects, simplifying programming and increasing modularity ten-fold

Classes & Objects: Basic concept of OOP, abstract and user-defined data type, class stores data and becomes blueprint for the object while being invisible, only showing the object created

Data Abstraction: Simplification of logical view while hiding background details/explanation. 
Physical level: Storage and format of data, 
Logical level: Data description, data relationships, manipulation of data (where the programmer works), 
View Level: the generated interactable of the program, usually the GUI or CLI.

Encapsulation: Wrapping methods and their necessary data within classes to create modules for specific tasks

Levels of encapsulation: high - only variables and function calls (ex: Controller or StepDefinition), medium - function calls, variables and minor data manipulation (ex: method with a larger function that calls a function for a small piece of data), low - variables, mostly data retrieval and manipulation (ex: PageObjects, Services, Utilities)

Inheritance: Passing down properties from parent class to reuse code and extend functionality. 

Types of inheritance: Single (1 parent, 1 child), Multiple (2+ parents, 1 child), Multilevel (Parent, derived, 2nd gen derived), Hierarchical (1 parent, 3+ children), Hybrid (1 parent > 2 derived > 2nd gen derived from 2 derived)

Polymorphism: The idea of a multi-purpose function that processes data in more than one form, tasks in various ways and can use method overloading and overriding to achieve multiple goals at once

Types of Polymorphism: Compile Time (Function overloading and Operator overloading), Run Time (Virtual Function)

Object-Oriented Programming Summary

1. OOP treats data as a critical element. 
2. Emphasis is on data rather than procedure. 
3. Decomposition of the problem into simpler modules. 
4. Doesn’t allow data to freely flow in the entire system, ie localized control flow. 
5. Data is protected from external functions. 

Pros

1. It models the real world very well. 
2. With OOP, programs are easy to understand and maintain. 3. OOP offers code reusability. Already created classes can be reused without having to write them again. 
4. OOP facilitates the quick development of programs where parallel development of classes is possible. 
5. With OOP, programs are easier to test, manage and debug. 

Cons

1. With OOP, classes sometimes tend to be over-generalized. 
2. The relations among classes become superficial at times. 
3. The OOP design is tricky and requires appropriate knowledge. Also, one needs to do proper planning and design for OOP programming. 
4. To program with OOP, the programmer needs proper skills such as design, programming, and thinking in terms of objects and classes, etc. 